the Nova infinity quick change system
allows for rapid and secure changing of
jaws without needing to remove the Chuck
from the lathe but you do not need to
buy a whole new chuck to get the
advantage of quick change jaws the
Infinity system can be retrofitted to
your existing chuck in about 15 minutes
and you only need to do it once this
video will show you step-by-step how to
swap out your nova chucks jaw slides for
the Infinity quick change jaws slides
you will need a few simple tools the
allen wrench is provided with your Chuck
a rubber mallet and a good pair of snap
ring pliers
the process starts by removing the shaft
set screw called the grub screw in the
instructions next remove the large
spring clip from the chuck body using
the snap ring pliers note that I am
covering the clip with my hand to keep
it from flying off if it should slip
from the pliers now the plastic backer
should just fall out but if not a light
tap with a rubber mallet will free it
with the backer removed the pinion gears
will slip out the sides of the Chuck and
then the scroll gear can be removed by
inverting the Chuck body without the
scroll gear the jaw slides are free to
be removed as you swap them be sure to
keep the numbers aligned replace slide
number one with number one two with two
and so on with the new infinity jaw
slides in place it is critical to ensure
that they are evenly spaced in the
center before attempting to reset the
scroll gear set the scroll gear inside
the Chuck body and gently rotate it
until it seats with the jaw slides it
should drop into place and then move all
four jaws as it is carefully rotated the
two pinion gears are replaced again
ensuring that they engage the exposed
teeth of the scroll gear take a second
before you continue to turn them with
the t-handle wrench
and ensure that everything moves
smoothly
the plastic backer is reset into the
truck body
and the spring clip reinstalled to hold
everything in place
finally replace the set screw and your
truck is ready to use with the Infiniti
quick change jaw system before
remounting your Chuck to the lathe take
a minute and run the jaws all the way in
and out just to make sure everything's
working as expected
the retrofit jaw slides you just
installed are designed to use with jaws
that have the Infinity and locking
system installed there are 14 different
jaw sets available in the Infinity
system including bulges smooth column
jaws and sawtooth jaws better still the
existing jaws you already own can be
added to your Infinity system simply
attach them to a set of our jaw adapters
and they will fit seamlessly on your
retrofitted Chuck you can now swap jaws
as needed during turning without having
to remove the Chuck from the lathe and
fuss with screws in less than a minute
you can unclamp your part swap jaws
using the Infinity t-bar handle or an
Allen wrench reset your part as needed
and get back to work you can now spend
your time turning instead of changing
jaws the old-fashioned way find out more
about the Infinity quick change system
and all our turning products at WWE Tag
no tool calm